projects.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Projects
permalink: /projects/
---

[Kryptor](https://www.kryptor.co.uk/): A simple, modern, and secure encryption and signing tool.

[Geralt](https://www.geralt.xyz/): A modern cryptographic library for .NET based on libsodium and inspired by Monocypher.

[Cahir](https://github.com/samuel-lucas6/Cahir): A deterministic password manager.

[Milva](https://github.com/samuel-lucas6/Milva): A simple, cross-platform command line tool for hashing files and text.

[Vanity](https://github.com/samuel-lucas6/Vanity): A simple WireGuard vanity public key generator.

[The AEGIS Family of Authenticated Encryption Algorithms](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-irtf-cfrg-aegis-aead): The AEGIS-128L, AEGIS-256, AEGIS-128X, and AEGIS-256X Internet-Draft.

[Balloon Key Derivation Function (BKDF)](https://github.com/samuel-lucas6/draft-lucas-bkdf): An Internet-Draft for BKDF, a memory-hard password hashing and password-based key derivation function derived from Balloon.

[Encrypt-then-MAC for Committing AEAD (cAEAD)](https://github.com/samuel-lucas6/draft-lucas-generalised-committing-aead): An unpublished Internet-Draft and committing ChaCha20-BLAKE2b AEAD implementation.

[Cryptography Guidelines](https://github.com/samuel-lucas6/Cryptography-Guidelines): Guidance on implementing cryptography as a developer.

[crypto-is-cool](https://github.com/samuel-lucas6/crypto-is-cool): A list of cryptography books, papers, blog posts, presentations, and Q&A answers.

Click [here](https://github.com/samuel-lucas6?tab=repositories) for the full list.

Commit message:

projects.md: Update and format with headings.

projects.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Projects
permalink: /projects/
---

### Tools/Libraries

[Kryptor](https://www.kryptor.co.uk/): A simple, modern, and secure encryption and signing tool.

[Geralt](https://www.geralt.xyz/): A modern cryptographic library for .NET based on libsodium and inspired by Monocypher.

[Cahir](https://github.com/samuel-lucas6/Cahir): A deterministic password manager.

[Milva](https://github.com/samuel-lucas6/Milva): A simple, cross-platform command line tool for hashing files and text.

[Vanity](https://github.com/samuel-lucas6/Vanity): A simple WireGuard vanity public key generator.

Click [here](https://github.com/samuel-lucas6?tab=repositories) for the full list.

### Algorithms

[ChaCha20-Poly1305-SIV (CCP-SIV)](https://c2sp.org/chacha20-poly1305-siv): A misuse-resistant, key-committing AEAD scheme built from ChaCha20 and Poly1305 that can be implemented using existing cryptographic library APIs.

[The AEGIS Family of Authenticated Encryption Algorithms](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-irtf-cfrg-aegis-aead): The AEGIS-128L, AEGIS-256, AEGIS-128X, and AEGIS-256X Internet-Draft.

[Balloon Key Derivation Function (BKDF)](https://github.com/samuel-lucas6/draft-lucas-bkdf): An unpublished Internet-Draft for BKDF, a memory-hard password hashing and password-based key derivation function derived from Balloon.

[Encrypt-then-MAC for Committing AEAD (cAEAD)](https://github.com/samuel-lucas6/draft-lucas-generalised-committing-aead): An unpublished Internet-Draft and committing ChaCha20-BLAKE2b AEAD implementation.

[kcChaCha20-Poly1305](https://github.com/samuel-lucas6/kcChaCha20-Poly1305): A key-committing version of ChaCha20-Poly1305.

[XXChaCha20](https://github.com/samuel-lucas6/XXChaCha20): A variant of XChaCha20 that has a 224-bit nonce, with no performance penalty.

[Finnick](https://github.com/samuel-lucas6/Finnick): A proof of concept for how you can turn a duplex-style AEAD scheme (e.g., AEGIS) into a memory-hard password-based KDF.

[HChaChaCha](https://github.com/samuel-lucas6/hchachacha): A family of block ciphers built from HChaCha20 for use in the PACT/comPACT and SC transforms for AEAD commitment.

### Documentation

[Cryptography Guidelines](https://github.com/samuel-lucas6/Cryptography-Guidelines): Guidance (that desperately needs updating/correcting) on implementing cryptography as a developer.

[crypto-is-cool](https://github.com/samuel-lucas6/crypto-is-cool): A list of cryptography books, papers, blog posts, presentations, and Q&A answers.

[phc-discussions](https://github.com/samuel-lucas6/phc-discussions): The Password Hashing Competition (PHC) mailing list as files for searching.
